1. What is Variable in Python?
Answer:Variables in Python are reserved memory locations that store values.
Whenever a variable is created, some space is reserved in the memory. 
Based on the data type of a variable, the interpreter will allocate memory and decide what should be stored in the memory.

2.What are number data types in Python?
Answer:Number data types are the one which is used to store numeric values such as:
    integer
    long
    float
    complex

3.How can String literals be defined?
Answer:Strings can be created with single,double,triple quotes.

4.What is the difference between .py and .pyc files?
Answer:The .py files are the python source code files. 
While the .pyc files contain the bytecode of the python 
.pyc files are created when the code is imported from some other source. 
The interpreter converts the source .py files to .pyc files which helps by saving time.

5.What are local variables and global variables in Python?
Answer:Global Variables:Variables declared outside a function or in global space are called global variables.
These variables can be accessed by any function in the program.
Local Variables:Any variable declared inside a function is known as a local variable. 
This variable is present in the local space and not in the global space.

6.What are functions in Python?
Answer:A function is a block of code which is executed only when it is called. 
To define a Python function, the def keyword is used.

7.What is a lambda function?
Answer:An anonymous function is known as a lambda function. 
This function can have any number of parameters but, can have just one statement.

8.What does [::-1} do?
Answer:[::-1] is used to reverse the order of an array or a sequence.

9.What are python iterators?
Answer:Iterators are objects which can be traversed though or iterated upon.

10.How will you convert a string to all lowercase?
Answer:To convert a string to lowercase, lower() function can be used.

11. What is the purpose of ‘is’, ‘not’ and ‘in’ operators?
Answer:Operators are special functions.They take one or more values and produce a corresponding result.
is: returns true when 2 operands are true  (Example: “a” is ‘a’)
not: returns the inverse of the boolean value
in: checks if some element is present in some sequence

12. What is the usage of help() and dir() function in Python?
Answer:Help() and dir() both functions are accessible from the Python interpreter 
and used for viewing a consolidated dump of built-in functions. 
Help() function: The help() function is used to display the documentation string and 
also facilitates you to see the help related to modules, keywords, attributes, etc.
Dir() function: The dir() function is used to display the defined symbols.

13. What is a dictionary in Python?
Answer:The built-in datatypes in Python is called dictionary. 
It defines one-to-one relationship between keys and values. 
Dictionaries contain pair of keys and their corresponding values. 
Dictionaries are indexed by keys.

14.What does len() do?
Ans: It is used to determine the length of a string, a list, an array, etc.

15.Explain split(), sub(), subn() methods of “re” module in Python.
Answer: To modify the strings, Python’s “re” module is providing 3 methods.
    split() – uses a regex pattern to “split” a given string into a list.
    sub() – finds all substrings where the regex pattern matches and then replace them with a different string
    subn() – it is similar to sub() and also returns the new string along with the no. of replacements.

16. What are the built-in types of python?
Answer: Built-in types in Python are as follows –
    Integers
    Floating-point
    Complex numbers
    Strings
    Boolean
    Built-in functions

17.What are Python libraries? Name a few of them.
Answer:Python libraries are a collection of Python packages. 
Some of the majorly used python libraries are – Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn and many more.

18. Define encapsulation in Python?
Answer:Encapsulation means binding the code and the data together. 
A Python class in an example of encapsulation.

19.What does an object() do?
Answer:It returns a featureless object that is a base for all classes. 
Also, it does not take any parameters.

20.How to remove values to a python array?
Answer: Array elements can be removed using pop() or remove() method. 
The difference between these two functions is that the former returns the deleted value whereas the latter does not.